Hello and welcome to ledger cast. My name is Brian crossguard. Here with Josh also Hey Josh.

Mr. Brian, it's Friday somewhere I was told it is Friday somewhere Well, it's actually not Friday somewhere. Well just just go on actually think that that I don't think that's possible.
I'm gonna have to correct you on that.

It might be five o'clock somewhere. It's 18 minutes to five o'clock if somewhere in the Atlantic Ocean. Meanwhile, we're here. And guess what? This episode alleged cast is brought to you by token sets go to legislative comm slash sets simplified asset management, the defy pulse index, the flea or however you call that the Ethereum leveraged index thing they got some cool products, not to mention watch the watch McCall, the watch makalah my own tulip. It's a great way to manage assets in a simplified manner. Their infrastructure is very good. They just raised $15 million. That seems like the magic number for people to raise a plate. Have you noticed that? I haven't. He wrote raise 15 million 00. x labs raised 15 million set protocol. The backers of token sets raise 15 million. Congrats to them. We're happy to have this partner go to learn comm slash sets. Check it out. There's simplified asset management tools. It's Thursday night somewhere. That's right. You can have Thursdays the new Friday anyway. Joshua, we haven't talked in a couple of weeks. We're talking a little early today because I'm going to be in Miami for the cringe conference. I mean, the Bitcoin conference, I have not been to one of these mainstream crypto conferences yet. I know you've done them, you've gone and like, done the booths and done everything I have not done that. I'm not even doing that this time. I'm just hanging out. I'm not even going to the conference.

I mean, it's okay, if you can tolerate these people in person, it's not terrible, you know, I tend to believe I like like on the top of my list of things to do. It's fun.

I tend to believe most people are Alright, once you get them in person and just hang out in a casual manner. If you get people in like a cringy manner than they can still be cringy. But I think most people are actually more tolerable in person than they are online. You know. That's fair. So it's really fun, though, right? Yeah, yeah, this is my fourth trip and four weeks I've been there. Yeah. I mean, I went to a wedding went to the beach. When went to Maine. And now I'm going to Miami. So to two personal trips to work trips, worked on all four of them, unfortunately. And and here we are, we dumped like mad while I was driving to the beach. Like every time I got out of the car. portfolio down another 10%

are the worst. The worst may we've ever had. What could be the worst q2 we've ever had? We'll start there. You know, those aren't good things. Yeah, you're expecting your screenshare. So we're looking at eath with a lot of indicators on it.

Yo, man, we can do the rundown. But but he's, he looks fine. Honestly, relative to everything else. Basically. It's still above the 200 day moving average. So I can't really cried too much about it. Right. Like, you know, I kind of is okay.

I'm trying the same thing, as you know, I had people asking me like, Am I Alright, and I'm like, I was really pretty happy with $2,000 eath A month ago? You know, like, on a percentage basis? Did I just lose a lot of money? Yes. But on a like, relative basis on the year I'm up many multiples on my entire portfolio. So like, How can I be terribly upset other than, like, that realized cost of not selling the top? You know? However, many of our brethren and sisters are no longer with us because they were longing the top on leverage. And clearly that's what happened. At the peak selling pressure corrected. It was just a mass de leveraging of anyone that was any more than like, 1.5x

Yeah, it was the difficult part about this top four BTC was it wasn't wasn't super obvious, unless you're following along with the distribution narrative. Yeah, just wasn't blow off, kept rolling. But once again, BTC is the king of the castle. So if BTC moves down, everything was down. You know, you can't just ignore it. You can trade the charts separately all you want, but at the end of the day BTC will show you what's up, you know.

Yeah, sailing like 45 Yeah. 45 ish or so, really kind of started the cascade. But then, honestly, the vast majority of the dump was in 124 hour period that that marked the low and I got retested a couple days later, certainly got people depressed. And now we're in this sideways what's next type of territory? If you're using Bitcoin as your barometer? To me, you could make a case that this is a similar deleveraging event to what we had March 2020. But I don't think that maybe that means the upside is 10x. From here, I just think it means enough people got out to where you can climb this wall of worry and then kind of continue on with whatever market structure that we had before you know.

Yeah, I think every on chain metric you look at ultimately tells you that short term buyers got mega wrecked, they realized mega losses. And long term holders didn't really do much on balance relative to everything else. If we're looking at like Bitcoin days destroyed or whatever, there wasn't like a race to the exits or anything from long term holders. So yeah, people got most obliterated were people that basically got in post Ilan, you know, we had we had the Ilan crap, we had China mining stuff, which is continuous, and we have defied deleveraging. And then after that, we have another low where I was like, Okay, now I'm actually worried because people who bought the dip, like me, like 39, or whatever, BTC are now underwater again. It's like, Okay, what if this isn't just the dip? And it's an actual, you know, trend reversal type situation? I really wish everyone everyone will tell you it is because nothing, we can't pull back. 70% and still be bullish, right.

Did we pull back? 70% from the top?

I don't I don't think BTC did. But I know a lot of all basically every single defy coin. Yeah. BTC is 53%. Yeah. eath was 61%. So can we recover that? You know, I don't know.

I don't know what Bitcoin feels like, to me the 20 of the 200. Cross. Those are, I've long talked about my primary trend following metrics fast and slow. It crossed below the slow moving average the last time it really did that. And then like did this kind of hangers on multi month pain thing was November 2019. After that recovery that it had back then. So recovered, consolidated, dumped, consolidated scam, pumped, dumped, thought like it was just real messy. And I do think that was September 2019, really all the way till March 2020. So like that's six, seven months of sideways choppy range. And I think we could do something similar here. I don't think the result would be the same, because what resulted from that was a COVID capitulation. But I do think that, like, you could just draw a box between, you know where bitcoins been and say, like, suck it up. We're about to be in here for the next year. And most people would not like that, because it doesn't give them the volatility that they want. But I think it's, I think it's a scenario that we have to consider, don't you?

For sure. And something else that the on chain metrics will tell you is that market use of the chains are way down, transactions way down. gas is basically zero on eath. The mempool has cleared out on BTC, almost completely mempool on eath nearly cleared as well, from where it was anyway. So that, you know, everyone hates high gas fees. But the reality is that high gas is pretty bullish for us because it means people are willing to play that game, even when fees are insane. And it's also a metric just to tell you are people using the chain right? We know it can't scale and that's not going to change anytime super soon. So if fees are above 100 for fast transactions, then it's painful but it's probably more bullish than bearish honestly.

Yeah, I mean, I think layer two scaling on eath is closer than it ever was on Bitcoin whenever Bitcoin was dealing with similar stuff. Personally, arbitrage arbitrage is launched, like there's several competing layer twos that are all launching and d phi protocols are endorsing them at the same exact time.

For BTC I didn't feel safe until so it was actually like live and I will be the same with etha it's not gonna be reality until it's actually implemented on segway was changes segway it

wasn't implemented on most of these places. until mid 2018 or something? Right?

Right. I don't think by Nance even has it implemented yet? I could be wrong on that.

Yeah, but and they were one of the laggards. And I think if you get a large percentage of dex trading, for instance, on layer two, that's far more impactful than seg wit was on Bitcoin. Because all the all the traffic occurring is on chain trading. gel, it's very moved yourselves to layer two, then you should be Gucci.

And I think we're closer to the eath people talking about lowering the gas ceiling, then raising it again. I think they're gonna start to say fees are too low. I think we're gonna see that very soon. I don't know the whole thing is a giant roll of the dice with VIP 1559 coming and proof of stake coming eventually. Who knows, but it's just like, there's so many moving parts there to even tried, like, game it out, you know?

Yeah, perhaps. However, we get back to price on on Bitcoin first. I mean, we're definitely flagging under major moving averages and fast moving averages in the same range where we consolidate and broke up from before. So from a pure percent drawdown if the markets not dead and going into a bear market, it's probably a good accumulation zone. But it also doesn't exactly scream, moving anywhere fast. Like, it looks like it needs to clear 41 42k before it can like get back into the healthier chop zone, which is like the top third of the 40 to 60k is a much safer place to chop than like 35 to 40 if you have sustained 35 to 40 chop, it makes me feel like we're going lower

is that if we do if we break down which we should based on technical analysis, I mean, this is a triangle post down move, right? So right, it's a bearish pattern. Should we continuation and that's going to be 17 to 20. You know, that's high timeframes. We're below the 200 day moving average. That's not great. We're sitting on a yearly pivot the next one down is 20k these are good things but it's reality right? That's and that does that mean let's pull out bear market right does that mean I'm short right here? No, it doesn't because I'm looking at the lower timeframes watching that four hour and we can we can talk about that but defy as a whole actually looks fine. Question mark just because it's got this w potentially is a sending triangle that it might morph into really what I saw today from curve gave me a lot of hope for the rest of the market because if you look at all of the D fighters they look like this except for curve which broke up over the past 24 hours yeah there's a lot of volume coming in as well on by Nance on a lot of these defy coins. Yeah, like big spikes and volume on Xerox on banned on just a bunch of like junk, right? Like it doesn't matter what it is. It doesn't matter what it is my bags. I say my bags, you say junk. That's fair. I mean, I'm trying to get an enzymes with my bags too technically. But that's a good sign that we're seeing not only prices breaking the horizontal resistance but it's also on mega volume. We can bring up curve

pickle scratcher says isn't a symmetrical triangle neutral or like 52% bearish following a downtrend. A symmetrical triangle is basically just non biased but the bias is always in the direction of the existing move. So if you have a symmetrical triangle and you've been going down and now your symmetrical triangle the most likely scenario is further down but it's an indecisive pattern in the first place so it just means you're gonna have volatility soon and try to play the break or something and no 0x is not junk Angelo curve is not junk either he just met curve and 0x and others other junk all the others are junk. I think that's my judgment.

Just remember every everything's an altcoin if it's not BTC just remember Yeah. So yeah, this is curve this is the curve for our right yeah, use this blueprint for every single defy chart right now. It's almost identical across the board to this

right. And except for they haven't broken out yet like curve, right. Like it's leading the pack on volume breakout recovery. Correct. I think what I find interesting is this is the I think this is directly related to the convex launch, which is a way for people to get additional yield from curve and I wonder if we're hitting a place where like, not everything moves, lock, stock and barrel together, you know what I mean? Like, defy like the all coin big moves, it didn't really matter what you held. And I wonder if now it matters what you hold if that's the the realm that we're in. So maybe some stuff will not follow this pattern. Like maybe I'll even break down from these. But you know, that's, that's what part of me believes. That's, that's fair. I think everything even link, which historically has been super uncorrelated to everything was following. Yeah, it was quite correlated,

still highly correlated. So until we see the post breakout action up or down from a lot of these, it's hard to say. But yeah, that could be the case.

I would, I would like to see that because right now, it just makes no sense to trade anything independently. Also, same. One other comment I did want to highlight was, if we're going full bear market, the eath BTC chart does not fit that narrative, because when we went full bear market last time, like eath, BTC, just bled out. And eath BTC looks quite strong. And this is another potential hint to me that the markets not over. It's just kind of a re accumulation phase on the majors. Because there seems to still be a lot of demand for Ethereum relative to Bitcoin. But I still want to see and Don, our buddy, Don all had this on point. He was worried, not that Bitcoin was sideways, but the Bitcoin was like, trending slightly down while everything was up. And that was his big sign for thinking we needed much more down. I think that was a good point. So I'm fine saying if BTC go up, I'd like to see Bitcoin climb the wall of worry, rather than, like, trickle down, you know, in order to trust the moves. So that's kind of what I'm looking for.

Yeah, we have so many, lots of Reclamation to do right. Lots of mean, reverting to do still, I think it's fine to be cautiously bullish on low timeframes. But being super realistic, a high timeframes that we've lost, like every single support even he had a daily bearish TK cross today, or the last couple days. So none of the trend metrics look good. He does have a descending triangle or an ascending triangle again, similar curve just like everything else, and expectation is that this actually does break up. Versus BTC, which is kind of more 5050. So I am long, eath and BTC. Here.

I'm long eath. I've been playing long eath on margin, and people were like you said, Don't play margin. I said, Yes, don't play margin when it's got massive open interest. But if you're going to play it, play it when the open interest has been obliterated, and it's down on a significant dip. And what you can believe is a continuation of the bull market. So I've been like swing trading it people basically gave me crap along the entire way of this trade, which gave me added confidence. But ever since 1950, as it kind of recovered that, that candle, I've been playing some of these swings. However, I do feel like it's where we're either gonna get this more sustained push back above 3k. Or, you know, I don't know, this is where I want to be a little more cautious. So I'm sitting here in good profit on eath. Long, and also looking at it like, this is not where I would probably, like I'm entering local resistance if I'm entering right this very moment. So I'm not like, super enthused about it. But I am holding my existing position. That makes sense.

Yeah, you can trade the range. Yeah. But I'm kind of on the other side of that, where I'm looking for the range break to the upside, you know, right. But I think I think both are fair.

Yeah. And I actually am with you, that's what I'm looking for. But I'm bright. I kind of needed to prove itself. And we've had, we have a record like this and the doubt to the downside so strongly. Like, it seems like the markets going to hunt liquidity, basically. So like, Where is that liquidity? I do actually think where people will get really excited is where you go from this localized resistance to much stronger resistance, like people will be like, Oh, yeah, we recovered 3k and then 30. Like it gets to 3100 or something and sells off hard from there because people are able to get exit liquidity there. I think that's the type of risk that you run. Once you're up here.

Art fees or funding still negative?

I'm pretty sure it's been pretty neutral. I think our buddy Johnny said in the chat, that it just recently showed signs of life of people paying to be long, some to some degree. But it's not. It's not like punishing funding. It's very, very modest. So it's healthy funding.

Yeah, so worst case, worst case for man. eath is 600 and BTC 17. Sets worst case so that's like

that's a game over stuff though. That's just like re accumulation. Like,

I mean, you know, I think MACD daily MACD on Easter It's fine for the first time in a month. It's gonna flip green probably today or tomorrow. But the trend metrics are super mixed. We're above the 20 on the weekly eath USD pair, at least, you know, so there's that. That held. Yeah. And sorry, I tried to mute myself. And we're also above the 200 moving average, like I already said, So, I don't know, stuffs all over the place. I'm just watching low timeframes. BTC the four hour cloud, it has a bullish edge edge thing trying to work itself out here for the first time since we dropped below the cloud. So

yeah, I think I'm, I'm in on spot. I have no plans of selling spot. And my question is, how long do I hold my market? Long's? That's kind of where I'm sitting. You know,

I mean, I think if we start making lower lows instead of higher highs, and that's it, right? Yeah, there's your answer. You know, it's kind of like that simple at this point.

You remember the A sending triangle, you and I talked about this for months back in 2017, when eath, went to 403 50, and went to 400, at the top, but like that a weekly close at 350 had a huge dump and then consolidate for months. That's the and then went to 1400. After that, no 3x that's what I actually think is your like hyper bull case, is we go all the way back up to 30 804k. And we consolidate on a weekly timeframe. And then we pump in the fall, like we go in the fall, we go from, you know, 30 804k, up to eight to 10k. And that's how you end the cycle. I think that's very possible. And that's my high. That's that's my high conviction play if we get that set up. But that's also not, that's betting that we're not gonna sit here and just go like straight to new all time highs. So I'm gonna continue to play these ranges. It's a range trading environment in my mind.

Well, yeah, I agree. possibility.

Yeah, it's not a set and forget it type situation anymore. That's over for sure. Yeah, it's definitely a watch lower timeframes, set expectations based on higher time frames below anything, that'll be a cleaner trade to get out of, you know, the we're not expecting you willing to take your profits. Right, exactly. You're not expecting 10k anymore, you're expecting wherever the range will give you, you know,

yeah, john Bishop in the chat asked, what are your hedging strategies? And is it options to use options, mine is not options, neither of us have good exposure to options as Americans. But even if I did, I wouldn't, because the IV would be too high as a pure hedge. So for me, it's basically to sell it resistance, certainly on margin, but also start to put myself back into at least partial cash at various times, if I feel like that's the best play for me. But I will probably maintain some degree of long exposure. Until I feel like the market is truly done. until the day I die. I have to find like pure macro and validation levels. To say like, Okay, I'm in cash and nothing but cash, currently on BTC might be like, if we went back up to like, 48, I might actually go to cash because then the risk reward is not very good. If we get rejected by underneath the consolidation that we were in back then, but it'll probably depending on like, how does that compared to the ops that I could be in and that kind of thing. So I probably won't be in cash, but I probably won't be in Bitcoin either. That makes any sense.

I think anything above 45 is a gift. Anything above 42 to take profit. Anything above 42 at the 200 day moving average is a gift. Anything above 48 is like amazing, love it.

On the downside, a weekly close below, like 32 is just where I think you get massive, massive selling.

The market is just so disconnected. And so not even bipolar, but just like, like look at what Ilan and Ilan tweet can do on anything, you know, that's a five to 10% move. And if you're on leverage in a range, you're just gonna get destroyed if you're on the wrong side of that. Right. So it's just it's so hard to like really want to get into a big position on leverage here

here would be my goals, I want to stay concentrated, not be in a whole lot of different things. Because I want to be to move quickly and I want to stay liquid meaning I can get in and out a few things quickly. If I can do that, I will hope that I can be nimble to current market conditions as we approach these potential complacency target type upside. So if we go to 48k Bitcoin, I want to be able to exit quickly Taking advantage of market moving potential on the way up. I also will probably like start to steer back towards majors as in eath and BTC. As the market further recovers, those are the things that I'm going to do. And that's how I'll hope to preserve my capital. I made it out of this whole thing, despite having spot exposure throughout it not wrecked because I had no margin exposure. And I didn't sell the bottom. You know, if you count top, like break down to bottom, you were not you survived. And you honestly, you're down what 20% 25% on spot based on where we broke down from like, to where we recovered to today. It's not as bad as it sounds. Now, if you sold the bottom. If you got liquidated all those types of things, then sure it's horrible. But survival sometimes is just like using common sense, right?

Yeah, you can't, you know, I was selling all the way down, including the bottom. I sold. I won't say it because it doesn't matter. But I sold some BTC and eath near the bottom, for sure. Because what scared me again, was that the second dip after the big defy liquidation at that point, I was thinking to myself, what else is there to sell? Right? Well, that's kind of what I that's why I didn't sell is like, That's scary, though. Like, who's selling here? What else is there to sell? We've already liquidated everybody you know, like there's what else is there to do here? So that's why I got super concerned like, okay, I had the little remaining whatever I had that wasn't in cash already. So

but yeah, was that you were pushing heavily to cash. Well, before that, like the market? Yeah. Because Yeah, yeah. So you avoided the top side of the drawdown, whereas I didn't, so I was certainly not going to like risk selling the bottom. I was just gonna, like, you know, clench my butt cheeks and hold on. Yeah, like, I'm sure I've been in here long enough to know that I will get a complacency bounce of some sort. But usually, if I try to sell and ask for the complacency bounce later, I will not be happy about that.

Yeah, that's fair. I mean, I should have known better it just was just like wow, what what is going on here? Something else that's weird. That's going on? Is Dixie still raging at the lows? dx y?

Well, I think I mean, this is a little back to I don't even know when 2018 or further a super multi year level that I feel like it's doomed. It looks absolutely atrocious. But it's also at the floor, you know, like what do you so I think it can take some time to break down. But it looks like it's going to a six to me. And when it goes to 86 the whole ever you'll hear about it loud and clear from all markets. Like that's the potential like blow off top and legacy to me is is that further breaks down? You know, that's where gold finally moves and that kind of stuff.

Yeah, what I don't want to see is this mean? reverting if I'm bullish crypto or looking for anything PostScript, though. I don't want to see stocks break down if I'm bullish crypto seeing what happened today with BBB why and AMC very concerning. More insanity. AMC was up about 100% a day. Yep. I don't know what it caused that but mayhem, absolute mayhem it is.

So if you look at gold, like gold finally looks really strong. Like back, it's back to its 2011 all time highs, which had broken late last year, and then just had this brutal, dumping consolidation, whatever you want to call it. That bottomed at the apex of the 2013 consolidation. Like it's very technical, and it recovered off of it but like you did not if you were a gold owner, anytime in that period, you you're just in like pure depression mode because every other market in the entire world every other commodity, every equity, every fake digital money, like Bitcoin was pumping like crazy while your precious metal was die, like just going down. Now it's recovered off of that. And it's in a no trade zone now like it's right at the highs. It's either the complacency before a sell off, but my actual gut feeling is now it's going to break up and go pretty hard, finally. But it's been a painful trade for those. For those gold folks. It's been the laggard of all commodities.

Yeah, and seeing that rise is concerning because it's been uncorrelated with BTC. And seeing stocks inevitably decline

that doesn't but that about that makes me think this makes me think of the dollar doesn't really make me I don't care about the correlation of golden Bitcoin right now.

Well, it bothers me because if people view gold as the inflationary play over crypto then you You know kryptos the risk gone right?

Yeah, I mean certainly the it seemed like the correlation between like crypto and the NASDAQ like was seemed to seem really tight of late

yeah it's like 90 plus percent

yeah so yeah I guess in that sense it's possible but overall I'm just gonna act like they're not related markets

and that's a silver silver looks amazing to me yes essene triangle whatever flagging whatever you

want to call it super strong consolidation but like tap constantly tapping the ceiling and making it look like it wants to go higher. Yeah. g squared called dumps validation this gold faceless this last year did did lumber I know it dumped at one point did it recover? Was the situation there? I'm just trying to get I don't know what the ticker is for that. Got it. I'll pull it up. I keep an eye on it since I'm building a house lol senate the lbs one yeah, look at this chart. Like this looks like it looks straight up like a theory is ridiculous. What's gonna happen here like these dailies are obscene. But I you know, I've been talking to builders and this is very much on their mind, like the price of lumber is such a huge part of these construction projects. If this continues to go up, it really puts a lot of pressure on on the real economy. People like me trying to build and like they all have line items in their contracts that are like this is the price except for if Thunder lumber continues to go up. And it finally dumped about a week but that's like at the same time crypto dump. It recovered, dumped again. And now it looks like it's got this Chad candle today. So maybe it's just in this long period of consolidation. I don't know. But yeah,

I mean, everything is moving in a bad way. I know Yeah. Like it's inflation is five to 10% who knows what it actually is but right use cars infinity going to infinity right now

just cars going to infinity homes flying off the market lumber up a billion. Yeah. lion and a what says 100% of the everything bubble. And I tend to agree it feels like everything bubble. And then like, we're just constantly saying, but don't worry, there's no inflation or actually there is inflation. It's obvious what kind of moron doesn't see the inflation, but guess what? It's transitory. It's temporary. And I'm just like, come on there. Everything's friggin expensive is what it is. And CPI sucks. I agree, Jay,

what's always in the back of my mind for crypto though is like, this is why we're here. It just like Corona March. It's like we're here for this stuff. Why are we correlated with risk on you know, we shouldn't be but we are. Yeah, well, that's like, well, if the world actually does go to zero, then the kryptos just right there with it, you know,

yeah, making full sense of the market. So it's gonna be hard though, when you have stuff like AMC up 100%. And, you know, it went, AMC went directly to the price of the highest possible call strike that existed, like, somebody is just going after the stocks and just they're relentless about it. Like this round to have mean stocks going up seems to really be occurring at the perfect time for when people probably felt they were safe. Getting back into there short exposure on these dead companies like these are zombie companies. You know, Jimmy, and how dare you and AMC or zombie companies, I saw some stat that was like, if people go to the movies like four times than they ever did before pre pandemic, then AMC only has to go down 75% to justify its valuation was like okay. In other words, it's far too expensive. There's absolutely zero logic behind it. It's just tick talkers and meems. And probably some big hedge funds, pushing the narratives and somebody is making a hilarious amount of money, lots of people are going broke. And retail is going to end up holding the bag in that environment. It's hard to tell you like how does this macro all line up? Because literally everyone in the entire world of finance is just like, shrugging their shoulders. I have no idea.

I think the actual game over is going to be regulatory stuff against retail trading. Like that's it's already starting across the world. But as soon as I say like, you have to be accredited in some some way to trade at all, like a trade at all. Like it probably won't. It won't be accredited. There you go. It won't be accreditation like it is now it'll be some softer version of that, but I can definitely see that coming especially for Robin Hood. Like you can't touch anything unless you're whatever. I don't know. I don't even know what the metric they use is but

simultaneously so bullish for good Whoa and so bearish I don't know what would happen you know

let's try to the stuff that's going on in China hurts all of the five because if it's all just disconnected right like China look at look at BSc look at I don't know everywhere I'd look there's like everything is crumbling from either a regulatory perspective or a risk inflation perspective so speaking of speaking of meme stocks I just wanted to talk about those for a sec looks like a head and shoulders starting at those for sure

yeah but it is up you know because coin base listed it finally naturally this I get I was

I was so shocked that they listed it I was like I thought they already listed it you know I don't know I just thought about already been there no way Yeah, it's always already there. But you

know how many billions and trading volume they gave up by not having it my normie feeds like it I don't get them on my like ledger status Twitter feed, but on any other twitter feed any, any other like, ads that I see on the internet? I am constantly targeted with like trade dose here ads.

Instagram, Reddit, weeble whoever else's Yeah, and I agree

100% that's volume that Coinbase just passed away. So I am sure whoever, you know, puts the pressure to you know, tightens the screws on Coinbase decision makers. They were like list doze you morons. But this is totally in my mind of complacency leg it may make a new high as that complacency like I don't frickin know I'm not gonna pretend to be a genius when AMC goes up 100% a day. Maybe those will go to $1 but I don't care. This is the final leg of the DOS life. And I don't I don't understand how it would sustain anything long term. savvy says people are chasing riskier returns and eventually it's going to backfire and pop the bubble. I tend to agree.

I know Coinbase itself the stock around Coinbase just as continues to look like Bryan Armstrong just slowly and patiently dumping on everyone. Yeah, it was not gonna have any insider information that he's dumping. We'll see that in reports but it looks like people are taking profit on their long term positions and coin because no one who's bought coin on open markets is in profit. Meanwhile, gmv looks like it's about to go to a billion.

Yeah, it looks like 560 or 556 60 It looks amazing. It looks incredible. It's pretty breakout looks like it it's no words, AMC

why AMC profits rolling right into GMA what are the chances

basically Yeah, you know, they hope they help AMC and people just start trading gmv right.

Bed Bath and Beyond got the 40% squeeze today all of that sits assigned to me like and I like Bed Bath and Beyond this like as a company it's a much healthier company than the other ones. But it just went up 40% today because they were like oh yeah, this is that other one with a bunch of short interests. Let's go pump it and it's just this is insane. This stock market is insane. It's this is like it just makes me just bearish on society as a whole not just on market. Yeah, that's

fair. I mean, look what happened with those clones that made me super bearish in society. Yeah. BBB Why is still up in aftermarket hours. What What is going on?

I almost bought it a couple days ago cuz I was like the ANC stuff was starting to heat up again. I was like, I should just buy BBB BBB why, but I'm like, I liked the value of BBB low. And it was a $10 stock and I don't like it at 30 or 40 or whatever it is.

Yeah. Any other also I'm talking about? I mean, to me, every defy chart looks exactly like this. I did a video for BNC it'll be out soon ish on d fi stuff. But for the most part, everything looks like that. We went over the BTC stuff. Yeah, kind of it. I mean, BSc is just deteriorating by the second just continually getting attacked. Oh, something else I wanted to bring up is ransomware

when you say getting attacked? What do you mean?

Well, it's either it's either rugs or Yeah, yeah. Or exploits whatever, inside jobs. I don't know who the hell knows stay off BSc. It's all I gotta say. But the other thing about this regulatory aspect is the ransomware attacks have just been nonstop in the headlines. And that's going to be in politicians ears as well when it comes to crypto. So we're gonna see a lot of crackdown on that.

Yeah, those kinds of narratives are always what the crypto haters will use to fuel their fires. I was gonna use curve as my example it depends on which d fi chart you're looking at. I don't know how relevant it is. But I love moving average reclaims. So when something like this is teasing it push back above the 20 back above the 200 It makes me essential Treat the distance between that moving average and the break down zone as kind of an air pocket that it can more fully retest. So its curve is the type of thing where it wouldn't surprise me if it just like popped back up to three bucks or something before it found resistance. And you might actually see some rotation in these coins where you start to see these moves start to see recoveries in the chart, start to see some patterns form out, but it's gonna take time, this is not stuff that has to happen instantly.

