Exchanges at Goldman Sachs
Crypto: A New Asset Class?
Michael Novogratz, Co-founder and CEO, Galaxy Digital Holdings
Nouriel Roubini Professor of Economics, New York University
Stern School of Business
Mathew McDermott, Global Head of Digital Assets, Goldman Sachs
Host, Allison Nathan
Recorded in several sessions throughout April 2021
Allison Nathan: This is Exchanges at Goldman Sachs where we
discuss developments currently shaping markets, industries, and
the global economy. I'm Allison Nathan, senior strategist in
Goldman Sachs Research and creator and editor of the firm's "Top
of Mind" report which focuses on macroeconomic issues on the
minds of our clients.
In this episode, we focus on a topic that seems to be everywhere
right now -- crypto. Cryptocurrency prices have remained
extremely volatile on news about regulatory crackdowns,
environmental concerns, and heightened tax scrutiny. But this
latest bout of volatility has occurred even as interest in
crypto assets from credible investors has been rising and legacy
financial institutions, including ourselves, have been launching
new crypto products and services. Amid the recent volatility,
we're focusing on whether crypto assets can be considered an
institutional asset class.
I first turn to Mike Novogratz, co-founder and CEO of Galaxy
Digital Holdings, which is active in crypto investing and
trading, asset management, and venture financing, to discuss why
the current period of volatility is different from past boomand-bust cycles for crypto assets.
You've been very invested and interested in crypto for a while
now. And it's had its fits and starts. Think about 2017/2018.
What made this time different?
Mike Novogratz: 2017-2018 was a classic speculative mania.
It was the first global speculative mania we ever had. It was
the first surely retail-driven speculative mania. And it was
blind excitement. It's not that we don't see excess now or
knucklehead Twitter comments now or cheerleading and tribalism
now. We do. But back then that's all we saw. And to be fair,
crypto market cap cratered 98.5%.
But out of that grew a much smarter investor base. An investor 


base willing to differentiate between stores of value and
centralized finance and other stable coins or payment systems.
All these different use cases for crypto. And so we started
building an investment process as a community that had a little
more logic behind it.
But more importantly, during that downturn in '18-19, there were
not less people coming into this space but more. More people
being hired. And the infrastructure for people to feel
comfortable, the custody, the security got built to bring
institutions in. And so it's different this time because we've
hit the critical mass of institutions coming in. The fact that
PayPal and Square and -- you name the tech company -- getting
more and more engaged broadly stamps loud and clear this is now
an asset class.
There's still a lot of volatility. We will watch people in and
out, but it's not going away. And so after that crash, there
were most people that thought, "Oh, it was tulips. It was a
flash in the pan." But the guys that knew the space, knew that
the people building it perceived this as a mission from God, you
know? To quote the Blues Brothers. This is a purpose-driven
mission for most of the core crypto people. It is we want to
rebuild the financial market infrastructure in a way that's more
transparent, that's more egalitarian, that doesn't rely on
governments who continue to make bad decisions with our
finances.
And because of that core, bitcoin can't go to zero. It can go
lower, but there is a group of people that will never sell, that
fundamentally believe in this ecosystem. And the Ethereum
encystment has the same thing.
Allison Nathan: But do you think that the crypto ecosystem
can be successful if it isn't intertwined with the traditional
financial system?
Mike Novogratz: Listen, no, right? There's a huge
symbiotic relationship between them. The Galaxy advisor model
is a really good model. A lot of people out there don't have
time to learn to become investors. They're artists. They're
teachers. They're firemen. They're police officers. They run
businesses. That's why they hire experts. And so pulling the
experts in to understand this space I think is a wonderful
thing. It's turning traditional financial advisors, asset
managers into crypto preachers, right? They're selling the
story, and so they're bringing people into the tent. 





Listen, payments is going to be a really, really interesting
battleground because we have existing payment systems, right?
The money transfer business has huge amounts at high margin.
That's business banks don't want to lose, but that business is
under threat by these new payment systems. They're faster,
they're more transparent, and they're cheaper. And so
Facebook's coming out with their dollar-based payment system.
The Chinese government's coming out with theirs. And at one
point, phones that are going to have crypto wallets are going to
replace bank accounts. And so banks are going to have to pivot,
but the game is kind of just starting. The competition to see
who dominates payments. That's one lane.
Exchanges is another lane. Derivative markets is another lane.
The real question is: How fast will banks iterate and compete?
Allison Nathan: I then asked Novogratz if it's this promise
of revolutionizing payments that's driving investor interest in
bitcoin and other cryptos or if their fundamental value more
broadly lies elsewhere.
Mike Novogratz: Bitcoin's not going to be payments. The
system really isn't set up for payments. It's not fast enough
for thousands and thousands of transactions a second. They like
to say, now you're going to start buying your Diet Cokes or your
restaurant bills in gold. Like, no. You're going to buy them
in dollars if you're an American. And you're going to buy them
in euros if you're European. But real soon I'm going to send my
sister in Palm a dollar stable point and we'll move money around
like this for free.
Allison Nathan: Unrelated to bitcoin, the asset a lot of
people are owning right now.
Mike Novogratz: Yes, but Ethereum's going higher because
most of this stuff is going to be built on the Ethereum network.
And so Ethereum is going to get priced like a network. The more
people that use it, the more stuff that gets built on it, the
higher the price will go. So you've got payments being built on
it, you've got defi being built on it, and you've got NFTs being
built on it. So the three biggest moves in the crypto ecosystem
are mostly being built on Ethereum. Not only Ethereum but
mostly.
Allison Nathan: So what is the value proposition of bitcoin
then? Why should anyone buy bitcoin? 


Mike Novogratz: Bitcoin is the most distributed asset in
the history of the world outside of the dollar. 140 million
people own a piece of bitcoin. And so it's widely distributed,
and it's a uniform store value. There are very few uniform
store values. Gold is uniform store. There are very few
others. It's easily stored. It's much easier to store bitcoin
than it is to store gold. Go to Ft. Knox and look at how the
security they have around Ft. Knox. And so it's a better
version of an old thing.
What's unique about stores of value is they're social
constructs. It has value because we say it has. There has
never been a more successful brand created in 12 years by a
community. It was like they floated the baby in the river, and
the community raised the baby and it's now worth around $1
trillion. The world has voted that they believe this is a store
value. They just have. And a lot of people will take stubborn
arguments, but every single bank we know of is building a wealth
channel. There are 14 PTFs in line at the SEC. Every tech
company is building it into their wallet and interface.
And so one of the reasons everyone got into bitcoin, same reason
they got into gold, is we've got a macro backdrop that is tailor
made for it. What the market is telling you and what people are
telling you is they are worried that we have an unsustainable
balance of monetary and fiscal. That's not going away anytime
soon given the political landscape of the inequality that we
have, right? Do you think we should pay for college for people
that make less than $100,000? More and more Americans are
saying yes. This experiment that Biden just did with half of
the 1.9 trillion going directly to people that needed it is
being really well received. UBI or some version of UBI is
coming. We might not call it UBI, but we're going to tax
capital and we're going to give it more to labor. And that in
general is not fiscal improving. But there's not a political
imperative to say "stop spending money."
The treasury department and the government is financing
everything we want to spend, and that's happening in countries
all over the world. So we had bad deficits before COVID. Now
we have deficits that are insane. So as long as that macro
backdrop, that political backdrop is giving us a tailwind and
the market is being adopted, you're crazy to get out.
Allison Nathan: Don't you think people are buying bitcoin
because it's going up? 





Mike Novogratz: People in general are momentum investors.
All great fortunes on this planet have been made in trend. I
learned that from Paul Jones. This is a mega bull trend.
Bitcoin adoption and the macro behind it is in trend.
Allison Nathan: I next turned to Matthew McDermott, Goldman
Sachs's global head of digital assets, to understand why and how
Goldman Sachs is reengaging in crypto assets and what's driving
client interest in the space.
Why now for a new launch into the space? And what's different
from the past?
Matthew McDermott: I would say, pure and simple, client
demand. When we'd originally explored this space in 2017-2018
where we had aspirations to create our own digital custody
offering and have our own trading desk, the price action was
exclusively retail led. And what's different this time is the
institutional demand interest coupled with very strong demand
across the wealth management franchise. Plus an evolution
across crypto landscape with the broader product offering,
better risk management, better execution, better digital
custody. This has just made it all a little bit easier for
institutions to digest and ultimately at least understand how
they can get access.
Allison Nathan: What is driving that client interest? And
does it differ between the types of clients you speak to?
Matthew McDermott: Yeah, I mean, that's a really good
question. And I think it does vary from one client type to
another. It's that to say at this stage the people who we are
talking to -- and believe me, it's an extensive number across
the different client types -- it's more a case of how can we get
access, how can we learn more as opposed to what is bitcoin,
what are cryptocurrencies. So we look at asset managers' macro
funds. It's more in the context of does this fit into their
portfolios. And if they believe that it does, what percentage
in their mind makes sense? And so there's kind of discussions
in and around that. Is it less than 1%? 2%? 3%? More? And
then the question becomes: How can we get access to either the
physical or exposure through some other product?
From a hedge fund perspective, I would say they're more active.
One of the key drivers from their perspective is the structural
liquidity play inherent in the market. And what I mean by that 

is you can go long either the physical or an instrument that
gives you access on the spot basis to the underlying, so to
bitcoin, and then shorting the future. And there is this
liquidity premium that you can pick up this basis because the
market is still quite fragmented. It's still quite hard for
institutions to get access. The [UNINTEL] basis has fluctuated
quite considerably over the last 3 to 6 months. And so that's
been a structure of choice, the hedge funds.
And then if you migrate along to corporate treasurers, the
question is even slightly different from the other two. The
question they're asking is should they be investing on their
balance sheet in bitcoin? You know, jurisdiction? Where
there's negative interest rates? And there's this continual
fear of asset devaluation just given the monetary and fiscal
policy right now. People are really seriously thinking about
that. And so rather than paying to keep your cash on deposit or
paying to hold a government bond, having some portion of your
balance sheet in bitcoin may make sense.
And so we have spoken to an awful lot of different corporates on
that. I still think that it's still limited in terms of the
number who have actually kind of executed, but there's
definitely a lot of discussion and debate around that.
The other question that the corporate treasurers ask is: Is
bitcoin a payment mechanism? Should we be thinking about it in
that context? But PayPal talk about being able to use bitcoin
to actually pay for items, but the reality is Paxos is actually
behind the scenes converting bitcoin into fiat which is then
paid to the merchants. And so just given some of the inherent
inefficiencies in the bitcoin blockchain in terms of its ability
to process X number of transactions each second, I think the
payment mechanism is probably a weaker argument.
For wealth management clients, I think it's fair to say that
that cohort, which is your high net worth individuals, your
family offices, a certain proportion already are very active in
this space, and they tend to lead the way. It's bitcoin
obviously, but also they're very actively looking at other
cryptocurrencies as they think about the broader value that this
space can bring. And in the context of things like Ethereum,
we're looking at the whole decentralized finance and looking how
that can really transform the financial markets.
Allison Nathan: There does seem to be a lot of debate today
about whether or not cryptos are now an asset class. Do you 



have that discussion with clients? Do you think they're
thinking about it in that way?
Matthew McDermott: More clients now are thinking of it in the
context of being a new asset class. It is not that often you
get to witness the emergence of a new asset class. It does have
its very own idiosyncratic risk. Some of that's down to the
fact that it's still relatively new. It's in this adoption
phase. And when you look at how it's correlated to other asset
classes, it doesn't behave as perhaps one would expect, but more
and more people are gravitating towards the fact that it
probably is a new asset class.
Allison Nathan: But not everyone sees cryptocurrencies as a
new asset class. I also spoke with Nouriel Roubini, professor
of economics at NYU's Stern School of Business, who is deeply
skeptical about the prospect of crypto assets serving as
currencies or as assets at all.
You think that bitcoin, perhaps other crypto assets more broadly
are in a bubble. Why?
Nouriel Roubini: First of all, I think that calling them
cryptocurrencies is a misnomer. You know, anybody who knows
anything about money and monetary theory knows that for
something to be a currency it has to be a unit of account. But
nothing is pricing bitcoin. There has to be a scalable and
widely used means of payment. With bitcoin, you can only do
[UNINTEL] transaction per second. It's not the stable store of
value for goods and services. If you have to buy goods and
services, your currency cannot change its price relative to
those goods and services by 10 or 20% overnight. It has to be
stable. Even in a crypto conference I attended don't accept
bitcoin as a payment because your entire profit margin, say, 15-
20%, can be wiped out overnight.
The other characteristic of a money is that you have to have a
single numerator in order to be able to compare the relative
price of different goods. But in the crypto world, you have
thousands of tokens and of currencies. And in principle, each
one of them is to be used to buy different goods and service.
It's a little like going back to barter. I mean, even The
Flintstones cartoon had a more efficient monetary system because
they were using shells. By using shells, you can compare the
relative price of a Coca-Cola and a Pepsi cola. So calling them
currencies is a misnomer. 


Now, people say maybe they're not currencies, but they are going
to be assets. But let's think about what's an asset. Normally
we think of an asset as something that has a fundamental value.
So say a stock gives you a dividend. And the discounted value
of those dividends gives you some fundamental value. If you
provide a loan, you get interest on that loan. If you have a
bond, you get a coupon. If you have real estate, you get the
rent. If you have commodities, you have all the services of
that commodity.
Now, take something like gold that doesn't have an income.
Historically, it has been used in industry. It has been used as
jewelry. It has been historically a stable store of value
against a variety of tail risk -- inflation, debasement of
currency, financial crises, political risk, geopolitical risk,
you name it. Now take bitcoin, let alone thousands of these
other cryptocurrencies, bitcoin doesn't have income, doesn't
have any use. As I said, it's not a means of payment that is in
any formal way scalable. It doesn't have utility. When
something has a fundamental value and that price is well above
the fundamental value, we call it a bubble. But in this case,
we don't even know what's the fundamental value. So in that
sense to me, it looks like a bubble.
Allison Nathan: But given the macro backdrop of
expansionary policy from both the government and the Fed that's
raised concerns about higher inflation, I asked Roubini why
crypto assets which don't have exposure to currency debasement
can't at least provide an inflation hedge for investors. Here's
his answer.
Nouriel Roubini: So people say that bitcoin has gone up
because there is a fear of debasement of fiat currency. Then
actually inflation is going higher. The dollar has started to
weaken. Break evens are now above 2. And vol prices went up.
The bitcoin has gone up by ten fold, but I don't think that the
explanation for bitcoin rising by ten fold can be explained by
the fear of debasement of fiat currency. There must be
something else.
Bitcoin cannot be debased because there is a cryptographic rule
that determines how much its supply is going to go up, and there
is a limit of 21 million. But I could create something else
that also has a limited supply, speaking about the debasement of
fiat currency. It took 100 years for a dollar to reduce its
value in real terms by 90%. In 2018, it took 12 months for
thousands literally of the cryptocurrency losing 97% of their 


value in one year, not in 100 years. So, you know, am I worried
about inflation? Yes. But there is a wide range of assets I
think that historically have been much more reliable hedges
against inflation. You know, oil, energy, commodities in
general, mining stocks, gold, tapes, inflation adjusted with
other forms of inflationary index bonds. Under some conditions
even public equities and real estate.
And by the way, whenever there is a risk of episodes people say
bitcoin is a hedge against risk off. That's not true. It's
actually highly [UNINTEL]. For example, during the FebruaryMarch shock of the [UNINTEL] of COVID, US equity went down about
35%. Bitcoin went down by about 60%. And other top ten
cryptocurrencies went down even more. So when times are bad,
crypto assets don't go up, they go down. So they're not even a
hedge against the risk off episode.
Allison Nathan: And Roubini even argues that the broader
hype around blockchain technology is overblown.
All technologies at nascent stages seem to go through boom-andbust cycles. So why don't you think this moment is comparable
to the early days of the Internet that ended up being very
transformative for the world?
Nouriel Roubini: For several reasons. People say bitcoin
and cryptocurrencies are like the early stage of the Internet.
You know, the Internet, if you think about when the Worldwide
Web was launched, a decade later you had about a billion users.
I don't know what are the actual users for crypto, but maximum
100 million. And if you look at transaction costs, markets that
are efficient like, say, in financial markets, stocks and
[UNINTEL] spreads have been falling sharply. For things like
bitcoin, the cost of transactions are still very high. And a
decade into the Internet, you had email. Millions of websites
were useful. You had the technology like the CIP, HTML,
thousands of apps that were incredibly useful and successful.
In the case of cryptocurrencies, there are dApps, distributed
apps. But 75% of them are these crypto kitties or literally
pyramids or Ponzi schemes of one sort or another. And the other
25% are these [UNINTEL], the centralized exchanges that for now
they have no transaction and liquidity. So that comparison with
the Internet ten years later is not true. Ten years into the
Internet, everybody under the sun was using, was an amazing
transformative technology. 


Allison Nathan: But there are a lot of developers trying to
innovate based on the blockchain technology and that ledger
premise. Is there anything at all that you think is worthwhile
and does have value in that space?
Nouriel Roubini: The way I put it is as follows. I'm all in
favor of financial innovation, and I think there'll be radical
financial innovation in many dimensions. But to me the
revolution in financial services is the fintech revolution. But
if you think about the fintech revolution, 99% of fintech firms
and tons of them are profitable, they have revenue, they have
real business model, they've been successful, they have zero to
do with crypto. They have actually zero to do even with
blockchain. Most of fintech has to do with some combination of
AI machine learning, using big data, using IoT to collect the
big data, using 5G or other technology. And they are
revolutionizing payment systems, borrowing and lending, creditor
location, insurance, even asset management, some capital market
activities.
For example, in payment system, billions of transactions are
done by billions of people every day using digital payment
system. You have AliPay, Wicha Pay in China. You have M-Pesa
in Kenya and most of sub-Saharan Africa. You have Venmo,
PayPal, Square in the United States. These are all great
innovations that are totally scalable and secure and disrupting
financial services that have nothing to do with blockchain. I
have looked at these a lot because now people say, okay, maybe
these are not currencies, but the underlying technology of
blockchain is revolutionizing financial services or even
business activity. So there's a lot of buzz words about
enterprise, DLT, or corporate blockchain.
I've looked at many of these proof of concepts. I call them
BINO, blockchain in name only, because if something is truly
blockchain it should be: 1) public, 2) decentralized, 3)
permissionless, and 4) trustless, with trustless authentication
done by thousands of miners and so on. But if you look at all
these experiments about enterprise DLT and corporate blockchain,
almost all of them are private blockchains. They're not public.
They're not decentralized. They are permissions because you
have only a small group of people that have the authority of
validating transactions.
I looked at whether any of these DLT proof of concepts, even the
ones that are private permissions, have worked. And I looked
and studied 43 experiments of using blockchain for nonprofits. 




In banking [UNINTEL], giving ID to refugees. Out of 43 crazes,
zero have worked. And I think the fundamental problem is the
idea that technologies are resolving the problem of trust is
mission impossible. Trust cannot be created by technology.
Allison Nathan: And even for those who are more optimistic
on the space, some constraints to institutional adoption remain.
Here's Novogratz again.
What do you see as the last couple of things that really need to
really push this into an institutional asset?
Mike Novogratz: I think a little more regulatory clarity.
So Chairman Clayton just did not want to deal with crypto. He
didn't want it to be his legacy, and so he punted. And Gary
Gensler won't. I am guessing within his first nine months he is
really clear at some regulatory framework. And as we get that
clarity, it's going to make it easier for institutions to say,
"I get it." Defi is really interesting right now, but we have a
hard time using a lot of the products because "know your
customer." So with a little more innovation and regulator
understanding, you might see some of these defi protocols and
projects really start to explode.
Uniswap could be a bigger exchange than the CME in the New York
Stock Exchange.
Allison Nathan: And here's McDermott.
Matthew McDermott: I would say the key constraints -- there's
probably two or three. One is definitely mandate. Obviously
manifests itself in different ways depending on the nature of
the entity. So corporates, it's more the discussion with the
boards and the nature of the company. You know, is this
something that they want to do? And then within investment
funds and asset managers it's more do they have the authority to
have some portion of their portfolio invested in the underlying
cryptocurrencies? So mandate is a key one.
The second one is the access point and the ease with which they
can get exposure. And they're looking more to the fundamentals
of the market and the liquidity associated with that.
And then perhaps more philosophically, just understanding really
how does it sit within their broader mandate, portfolios,
balance sheet? You know, is this the right thing for them to be
doing? And so I think it needs to manifest itself across many 


different organizations. But as we've seen in terms of
continued inflow into this space, more and more people are
getting comfortable.
Allison Nathan: And with continued volatility in crypto
markets, we'll be closely watching the implications for crypto's
status as an student class, investors, and financial markets
more broadly. I'll leave it there for now.
If you enjoyed this episode, we hope you subscribe on Apple
Podcasts and leave a rating or comment. I'm Allison Nathan.
Thanks for listening to Exchanges at Goldman Sachs, and I'll see
you next time.